My project is one that is modeled after choose-your-own-adventure novels. It is largely story based (and for that reason, quite wordy). A player enters “Wonderland”, based on the novels “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland” and “Through the Looking Glass” by Lewis Carroll. Players “enter” Wonderland, and they are able to interact with the characters and objects in wonderland, from size altering food to talking tables. Their goal is to escape wonderland and collect as many objects as they can. Their score is determined by the number of objects they are able to collect throughout the game, and by the score they receive on an optional themed quiz. They are able to escape Wonderland by winning minigames and selecting the right choices in risky situations. This mostly matches the description of my proposal, although I altered the idea of creating “checkpoints” to determine scoring, and instead used collected objects for scoring. While I did not make entire alternative storylines, I did create events in which a different answer would incur a different scenario, but eventually lead down the same storyline. I found that this was more efficient, and the extra alternative events still offered the variety I was hoping to achieve if the user wanted to play again and make different choices. 
I selected this project because I enjoy visual novels, storytelling, and Lewis Carroll’s stories. I enjoy writing stories, and I really liked a recent visual novel I played through, called “Butterfly Soup”. I want to make my own visual novel in the future if I would be able to, and wanted to experience the process of coding for a text-based interactive storytelling project to begin. I had hoped to improve at building functions, creating while loops without needing to restart the kernel, and error handling input; I also had hoped to learn how to make a larger, cohesive coding project, and experience putting several coding components together. While I ran into a few challenges, I believe I did reach these goals.
Yes, I would do this project very differently. I might have picked the data parse adventure instead, but if I selected this project again, I would change my approach. This format is not very conducive to readability. I put in large chunks of text, and later realized that this was not ideal for this format. I would have instead reduced the text and added more games and functionality; I realized this too late, because I was too fixated on writing a good storyline. Halfway through, I realized my mistake and rushed the storyline in order to focus on the functionality, but I think that it is imbalanced. Overall, if I did this again, I would focus on creating an outline of the minigames I would like to include, ensure that the basic coding of the minigames and overall structure works, and then focus on developing a storyline later.
You can run my project by running the two blocks of code. The first large block has key functions that are incorporated later, and while it does not have the gameplay, it is important to run it. The second and final block has the gameplay– running it will trigger the beginning of the game. The game will ask you for various inputs throughout the game. The goal is to collect as many items and points as possible, escape risky situations, and win the final minigame to leave Wonderland.
It was challenging in the ways I expected. I struggled with the overall structure I should select– initially it was going to be a large main function, but I found that the while loop structure made more sense in order to prevent a user from continuing if they lost. I had a difficult time finding a way for a user to continue only if they met two specific conditions, and spent a long time trying to come up with a way to structure the “soup” or “chair” sequence. I also ran into problems when I tried to put everything together from time to time. But I was able to overcome these challenges, albeit a few of my solutions were a bit messy, or I had to crop out a few previously outlined plot points.
I used the following sources: (https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74412503/cannot-access-local-variable-a-where-it-is-not-associated-with-a-value-but) helped me understand that I had to change the scope of some of my variables becaus ethey were only defined within functions. (https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-set-up-the-game-loop-in-pyggame/) helped me to set up an overarching while loop for the game, even if I didn’t use pygame.( https://www.dataquest.io/blog/python-projects-for-beginners/) this helped me come up with some minigame ideas. (https://www.w3schools.com/python/gloss_python_function_arguments.asp) I had trouble understanding that I needed to pass parameters to function arguments in order to solve the two condition issue (The “soup” or “chair” issue), but this source helped me out. (https://www.learndatasci.com/solutions/python-timer/) this helped me create a stopwatch in python. The Alice in Wonderland books were the inspiration for the plotline. I also reference the class lecture notes quite frequently for help with functions and loops. 


